# *Blockchain*
## UNISA Spring 24 (revised in 25) ##

## Single payer transactions ##

1. Script [createSingle.py](createSingle.py) creates an Algorand address.
    It takes an account name as a command line argument and writes
    the address and the mnemonic and in the ```addr``` and ```mnem``` file,
    respectively.

    The pair of public and private key is generated by invoking

    ```python
        privateKey,addr=account.generate_account()
    ```

    The *privateKey* is a signing key of the ED25519 signature scheme and it is used
    to sign transactions. It is stored in the form of 
    a human-readable *mnemonic*, a passphrase consisting of 25 English words that
    can be obtained by invoking

    ```python
        mnemonic=mnemonic.from_private_key(privateKey)
    ```

    The *addr* is a human-readable address that will constitute the Algorand address of the 
    account as it will appear on the blockchain.
    See [this](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/accounts/) 
    and [this](https://dev.algorand.co/concepts/accounts/keys-signing/)
    for details on how the address is generated from the public key.

    The script [frommnem.py](./KeyDerivationP/frommnem.py) recovers both the secret key (that is, the signing key)
    and the public key (that is, the verification key) from the mnemonic.
    Again, see
    [this](https://developer.algorand.org/docs/get-details/accounts/) 
    and [this](https://dev.algorand.co/concepts/accounts/keys-signing/)
    for details.

2. Script [payTX.py](payTX.py) creates a payment transaction.
    It takes the (name of the file containing) the mnemonic of the sender,
    the (name of the file containing) the address of the receiver.

    The transaction is generated, signed and submitted as in the following
    snippet

    ```python
        unsignedTx=PaymentTxn(
            sender=sAddr,
            sp=params,
            receiver=rAddr,
            amt=amount,
            note=b"Ciao Pino",
        )
        signedTx=unsignedTx.sign(sKey)
        txid=algodClient.send_transaction(signedTx)
    ```

    The unsigned and signed transactions are found in ```TX/Pay.utx```
    and in ```TX/Pay.stx```. These are binary files.
    Use the following command to inspect the transactions.

```
        goal clerk inspect
```

*Note:* this code works with version 1.16.0 of algosdk
